# Coding Style
My personal coding style; used in every language I write.

## Indentation
Always 4 spaces. Continuation of line add 1 more space.

## Spaces
Never inside brackets.
Always around tokens.

## Block Brackets
Open always on same line.
Block starts on newline.
Close on newline.

x =  {
    y
}

## Comments
All comments provide context.
They should never explain 'what' but 'why'.

### Headers
Never include authors, dates, etc. (that's what Git is for)
Mention referals (where does this function get used)
Explain parameters and result if needed (not obvious from code)

### to-do's
Only use TODO, not HACK, BUGFUX etc.
If a TODO refers to an issue, use either the full uri or the issue number with a hash-sign (#456)

### Dividers
Always 80 char long
--- for subsections
=== for main sections

## Temporary variables

multiple variables of same type get number, e.g. i1, i2 etc.
If not obvious from code, provide a legend in comment.

### Arrays
i = index
k = key
v = value

### Loops (iterations)
c = counter

### General/Types
n = number
s = string
b = boolean
a = array
o = object

_ = general usage

### Functions
f = function
result = return value

## Naming conventions

### Variables & Properties
snake_case
In general they should start with a noun denoting what the container hold.
E.g. passenger_seat_amount

Booleans should start with something like is_, has_, etc.
E.g. has_seats

### Constants
UPPER_SNAKE_CASE

### Function & Methods
camelCase
In general should start with a verb.
E.g. increaseSeatAmount

If it returns a boolean it should start with something like is, has, etc.
E.g. isTurnedOn

### Classes, Objects & Modules
PascalCase
In general they consist of a noun or an ajective + noun.
E.g. Cat, BigCat.

### URI's
Mostly contextual. If possible, use snake-case.

### Caveats
Avoid words with double meaning. E.g. 'number' may refer to 'number of' (amount) or 'the number'. Always be specific and descriptive.

## Project file-tree
Projects
-- name-of-project
----- bin (dist/... what is distributed/released)
----* doc (all documents related to project)
----- ext (external libraries, dependencies, etc.)
----- out (build, files generated by the ide or compiler or tools)
----* res (resources like reference materials, config files, data or images)
----* src (source, this is the working directory)
----- tst (tests)
----* README.md
----* Changlog.txt
----* .gitignore

*) are placed under version control, the rest is not.

## Returns
I'm not a "there can only be one return" purist. Multiple exit-points from a function can be preferred (e.g. using a Guard). However, I do tend to try to return at the end as much as possible. (avoiding spagetti code).

## Anonymous functions (lambda's)
Avoid them. Only use them if the function is not used anywhere else and it does not contain more than 3 lines of code max.

## One function
Every function, method, class, module and file should do one thing or contain logical grouped.
